Lab Scenario

As a professional ethical hacker or pen tester, your first step is to gather maximum information about the target organization by performing footprinting using search engines; you can perform advanced image searches, reverse image searches, advanced video searches, etc. Through the effective use of search engines, you can extract critical information about a target organization such as technology platforms, employee details, login pages, intranet portals, contact details, etc., which will help you in performing social engineering and other types of advanced system attacks.

Lab Objectives

Gather information using advanced Google hacking techniques
Gather information from video search engines
Gather information from FTP search engines
Gather information from IoT search engines
Overview of Search Engines

Search engines use crawlers, automated software that continuously scans active websites, and add the retrieved results to the search engine index, which is further stored in a huge database. When a user queries a search engine index, it returns a list of Search Engine Results Pages (SERPs). These results include web pages, videos, images, and many different file types ranked and displayed based on their relevance. Examples of major search engines include Google, Bing, Yahoo, Ask, Aol, Baidu, WolframAlpha, and DuckDuckGo.

Task 1: Gather Information using Advanced Google Hacking Techniques
Advanced Google hacking refers to the art of creating complex search engine queries by employing advanced Google operators to extract sensitive or hidden information about a target company from the Google search results. This can provide information about websites that are vulnerable to exploitation. Note: Here, we will consider EC-Council as a target organization.

Launch any browser, in this lab we are using Mozilla Firefox. In the address bar of the browser place your mouse cursor and click https://www.google.com and press Enter.

Type intitle:password site:www.eccouncil.org and press Enter. This search command uses intitle and site Google advanced operators, which restrict results to pages on the www.eccouncil.org website that contain the term password in the title. An example is shown in the screenshot below.

In the search bar, type the command EC-Council filetype:pdf and press Enter to search your results based on the file extension.

Here, the file type pdf is searched for the target organization EC-Council.

Apart from the aforementioned advanced Google operators, you can also use the following to perform an advanced search to gather more information about the target organization from publicly available sources.

cache: This operator allows you to view cached version of the web page. [cache:www.google.com]- Query returns the cached version of the website www.google.com

allinurl: This operator restricts results to pages containing all the query terms specified in the URL. [allinurl: google career]—Query returns only pages containing the words “google” and “career” in the URL

inurl: This operator restricts the results to pages containing the word specified in the URL [inurl: copy site:www.google.com]—Query returns only pages in Google site in which the URL has the word “copy”

allintitle: This operator restricts results to pages containing all the query terms specified in the title. [allintitle: detect malware]—Query returns only pages containing the words “detect” and “malware” in the title

inanchor: This operator restricts results to pages containing the query terms specified in the anchor text on links to the page. [Anti-virus inanchor:Norton]—Query returns only pages with anchor text on links to the pages containing the word “Norton” and the page containing the word “Anti-virus”

allinanchor: This operator restricts results to pages containing all query terms specified in the anchor text on links to the page. [allinanchor: best cloud service provider]—Query returns only pages in which the anchor text on links to the pages contain the words “best,” “cloud,” “service,” and “provider”

link: This operator searches websites or pages that contain links to the specified website or page. [link:www.googleguide.com]—Finds pages that point to Google Guide’s home page

related: This operator displays websites that are similar or related to the URL specified. [related:www.certifiedhacker.com]—Query provides the Google search engine results page with websites similar to certifiedhacker.com

info: This operator finds information for the specified web page. [info:gothotel.com]—Query provides information about the national hotel directory GotHotel.com home page

location: This operator finds information for a specific location. [location: 4 seasons restaurant]—Query give you results based around the term 4 seasons restaurant

This concludes the demonstration of gathering information using advanced Google hacking techniques. You can conduct a series of queries on your own by using these advanced Google operators and gather the relevant information about the target organization.

Close all open windows and document all the acquired information.

Task 2: Gather Information from Video Search Engines
Video search engines are Internet-based search engines that crawl the web looking for video content. These search engines either provide the functionality of uploading and hosting the video content on their own web servers or they can parse the video content, which is hosted externally.

Here, we will perform an advanced video search and reverse image search using the YouTube search engine and Youtube DataViewer video analysis tool.

Here, we will consider EC-Council as a target organization.

Launch any browser, in this lab we are using Mozilla Firefox. In the address bar of the browser place your mouse cursor and click https://www.youtube.com and press Enter. YouTube page appears as shown in the screenshot.

If you choose to use another web browser, the screenshots will differ.

In the search field, search for your target organization (here, ec-council). You will see all the latest videos uploaded by the target organization.

Select any video of your choice, right-click on the video title, and click Copy Link Location.

After the video link is copied, open a new tab in Mozilla Firefox, place your mouse cursor in the address bar and click https://citizenevidence.amnestyusa.org/ and press Enter.

Extract Meta Data page appears, in the Enter YouTube URL search field, paste the copied YouTube video location and click Go.

In the search result, you can observe the details related to the video such as Video ID, Upload Date, Upload Time, etc. You can also find Thumbnails to perform a reverse image search.

Now, click on the reverse image search option for any thumbnail.

A new tab in Google appears, and the results for the reverse image search are displayed.

This concludes the demonstration of gathering information from the advanced video search and reverse image search using the YouTube search engine and Youtube DataViewer video analysis tool.

You can use other video search engines such as Google videos (https://video.google.com), Yahoo videos (https://video.search.yahoo.com), etc.; video analysis tools such as EZGif (https://ezgif.com), VideoReverser.com, etc.; and reverse image search tools such as TinEye Reverse Image Search (https://tineye.com), Yahoo Image Search (https://images.search.yahoo.com), etc. to gather crucial information about the target organization.

Close all open windows and document all acquired information.

Task 3: Gather Information from FTP Search Engines
File Transfer Protocol (FTP) search engines are used to search for files located on the FTP servers; these files may hold valuable information about the target organization. Many industries, institutions, companies, and universities use FTP servers to keep large file archives and other software that are shared among their employees. FTP search engines provide information about critical files and directories, including valuable information such as business strategies, tax documents, employee’s personal records, financial records, licensed software, and other confidential information.

Here, we will use the NAPALM FTP indexer FTP search engine to extract critical FTP information about the target organization.

Launch any browser, in this lab we are using Mozilla Firefox. In the address bar of the browser place your mouse cursor and click https://www.searchftps.net/ and press Enter.

If you choose to use another web browser, the screenshots will differ.

NAPALM FTP indexer website appears, as shown in the screenshot.

In the search bar, type microsoft and click Search.

You will get the search results with the details of the FTP in the target organization, as shown in the screenshot.

This concludes the demonstration of gathering information from the FTP search engine.

You can also use FTP search engines such as Global FTP Search Engine (https://globalfilesearch.com), FreewareWeb FTP File Search (http://www.freewareweb.com), etc. to gather crucial FTP information about the target organization.

Close all open windows and document all the acquired information.

Task 4: Gather Information from IoT Search Engines
IoT search engines crawl the Internet for IoT devices that are publicly accessible. These search engines provide crucial information, including control of SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) systems, traffic control systems, Internet-connected household appliances, industrial appliances, CCTV cameras, etc.

Here, we will search for information about any vulnerable IoT device in the target organization using the Shodan IoT search engine.

Launch any browser, in this lab we are using Mozilla Firefox. In the address bar of the browser place your mouse cursor and click https://www.shodan.io/ and press Enter.

In the search bar, type amazon and press Enter.

You will obtain the search results with the details of all the vulnerable IoT devices related to amazon in various countries, as shown in the screenshot.

This concludes the demonstration of gathering vulnerable IoT information using the Shodan search engine.

You can also use Censys (https://censys.io), Thingful (https://www.thingful.net), etc., which are IoT search engines, to gather information such as manufacturer details, geographical location, IP address, hostname, open ports, etc.

Close all open windows and document all the acquired information.
